INSTRUCTIONS.md, before:

# Restaurant Loader Challenge

## Overview

You're building a progressive restaurant discovery page that loads data from an external API. Rather than waiting for all data to load, we want to stream results to the user as they become available.

**Time limit:** 30-45 minutes
**What we're testing:** Concurrency control, streaming responses, progressive UI updates, and code quality.

---

## Getting Started

### 1. Create Your Own Repository

**Option A: Use Template (Recommended)**

1. Go to https://github.com/gwest7/candidate-test
2. Click the green **"Use this template"** button
3. Choose:
   - **Owner:** Your GitHub account
   - **Repository name:** `restaurant-loader-challenge` (or your choice)
   - **Visibility:** Public OR Private
4. Click **"Create repository from template"**

**If you chose Private:** Add `gwest7` as a collaborator
- Go to Settings → Collaborators → Add `gwest7`

**Option B: Manual Clone (If template unavailable)**

```bash
# Clone the base repo
git clone https://github.com/gwest7/candidate-test.git restaurant-loader-challenge
cd restaurant-loader-challenge

# Remove the original remote
git remote remove origin

# Create a new repo on your GitHub account, then:
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/restaurant-loader-challenge.git
git push -u origin main
```

### 2. Clone and Setup Your Repo

```bash
# Clone YOUR repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/restaurant-loader-challenge.git
cd restaurant-loader-challenge

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development
npm run dev
```

The app should start with:
- Server on `http://localhost:3000`
- Client with hot reload

### 3. Explore the Example

Visit `http://localhost:3000` and click "Load Stream Data"

This demonstrates the **chunked JSON streaming pattern** you'll use. Check:
- **Server:** `src/server/index.ts` - `/api/stream` endpoint
- **Client:** `src/client/main.ts` - how to consume the stream

---

## Your Task

### Part 1: Progressive Restaurant Loader (Core Task)

**Create a new endpoint:** `GET /api/restaurants/stream`

**Requirements:**

1. **Load all restaurants** from `restaurants.ts`

2. **Fetch details** for each restaurant using `fetchRestaurantDetails(id)` from `api.ts`

3. **Limit concurrency** to 5 simultaneous API calls
   - Don't fetch all 100 at once (will overload the API)
   - Don't fetch one-by-one (too slow)
   - Keep exactly 5 active requests at any time

4. **Stream results** to the client as each restaurant loads
   - Don't wait for all to finish before responding
   - Send each restaurant immediately when its details arrive

5. **Update the client** (`src/client/main.ts`)
   - Call your new `/api/restaurants/stream` endpoint
   - Display restaurants as they arrive (progressive rendering)
   - Show loading progress: "Loaded 15/100 restaurants"
   - Update the DOM incrementally, not in batches

**Acceptance Criteria:**

✅ Endpoint streams restaurant data progressively  
✅ Never more than 5 concurrent API requests  
✅ Client displays restaurants as they arrive  
✅ Progress indicator updates in real-time  
✅ All 134 restaurants eventually load (or show errors)  
✅ Handles API failures gracefully (some requests may fail, especially after hours)  

---

### Part 2: Bonus - Menu Loading (If Time Permits)

Extend your loader to also fetch restaurant menus:

1. Using each restaurant's details, add its menu to the queue
2. Use `fetchRestaurantMenu(id)` from `api.ts`
3. Send update down the same stream
4. Update the restaurant's UI to show menu info

**Constraints:**
- Still maintain the 5 concurrent request limit (shared between details and menus)
- Handle menu fetch failures independently (don't break the whole stream)

---

## What We're Evaluating

### Code Quality
- ✅ **Organization:** Is logic clearly separated? (queue, streaming, API calls)
- ✅ **TypeScript:** Are types used properly? Avoid `any`
- ✅ **Readability:** Can another developer understand your code?
- ✅ **Structure:** Are functions lean and focus on a single problem
- ✅ **Comments:** Do you explain non-obvious decisions?

### Technical Skill
- ✅ **Concurrency control:** Do you properly limit simultaneous requests?
- ✅ **Streaming:** Do results appear progressively or in batches?
- ✅ **Error handling:** What happens when API calls fail?
- ✅ **Performance:** Is the approach efficient?

### Process
- ✅ **Commits:** Do they show your thought process?
- ✅ **Prioritization:** Did you get basics working before attempting bonus?
- ✅ **Time management:** Working solution in 30-45 minutes?

---

## Important Constraints

⏱️ **Time-boxed:** Aim for 30-45 minutes total
📝 **Commit frequently:** We'll review your git history
⚠️ **External API:** The API is slow and occasionally returns errors
✅ **Working > Perfect:** We value a simple working solution over incomplete perfection

---

## Submission

When you're done (or time is up):

### 1. Make sure it compiles and runs

Please `npm run build && npm run start` to make sure it runs

### 2. Push Your Code

Push all your commits to `origin` and let us know when we can pull

### 3. Reply to Our Email With:

**Repository link:** `https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/restaurant-loader-challenge`

**If your repo is private:** Confirm you've added `gwest7` as a collaborator

**Brief explanation (3-5 sentences):**
- Your approach to concurrency control
- How you handled streaming/progressive updates
- Any trade-offs you made

**What you'd improve with more time:**
- What would you add/change with another 30 minutes?

**Estimated time spent:** (Be honest - we're testing realistic pace)

---

## Tips for Success

* Before you start, make a plan you can stick to
* Commit after each meaningful code change

---

## AI

Here is what very specific LLM prompts produced: https://youtu.be/nluEqXetQLs

**Please remember**, should you be invited to a technical interview, you will asked about your code so take note of the AI solutions you submit to us. You have to understand all the code you submit.

---

## Questions?

**Unclear requirements?** Make a reasonable assumption and document it in your submission notes.

**API not working?** Let us know in your submission - we can verify and review our access logs.

**Running out of time?** Submit what you have! We value working basics over incomplete advanced features.

---

## Good Luck! 🚀

Remember:
- ⏱️ 30-45 minutes total
- 📝 Commit as you go
- 💬 Comment your code
- ✅ Working > Perfect
- 🎯 Progressive loading is the key challenge

**We're excited to see your approach!**

Commit message:

Update instructions and UI for Restaurant Loader Challenge after team feedback
- Added guidance to read instructions and plan approach before starting.
- Revised streaming requirements for clarity and accuracy.
- Enhanced the HTML structure with a table for displaying restaurant details.
- Renamed updateDOM function to chunkProcessor for better context.

INSTRUCTIONS.md, after:

# Restaurant Loader Challenge

## Overview

You're building a progressive restaurant discovery page that loads data from an external API. Rather than waiting for all data to load, we want to stream results to the user as they become available.

**Time limit:** 30-45 minutes

**What we're testing:** Concurrency control, streaming responses, progressive UI updates, and code quality.

**PLEASE:** Read through all the instructions and plan your approach before you start. Plan your development approach and commit after every meaningful code change with a detailed commit messages.

---

## Getting Started

### 1. Create Your Own Repository

**Option A: Use Template (Recommended)**

1. Go to https://github.com/gwest7/candidate-test
2. Click the green **"Use this template"** button
3. Choose:
   - **Owner:** Your GitHub account
   - **Repository name:** `restaurant-loader-challenge` (or your choice)
   - **Visibility:** Public OR Private
4. Click **"Create repository from template"**

**If you chose Private:** Add `gwest7` as a collaborator
- Go to Settings → Collaborators → Add `gwest7`

**Option B: Manual Clone**

```bash
# Clone the base repo
git clone https://github.com/gwest7/candidate-test.git restaurant-loader-challenge
cd restaurant-loader-challenge

# Remove the original remote
git remote remove origin

# Create a new repo on your GitHub account, then:
git remote add origin https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/restaurant-loader-challenge.git
git push -u origin main
```

### 2. Clone and Setup Your Repo

```bash
# Clone YOUR repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/restaurant-loader-challenge.git
cd restaurant-loader-challenge

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development
npm run dev
```

The app should start with:
- Server on `http://localhost:3000`
- Client with hot reload

### 3. Explore the Example

Visit `http://localhost:3000` and click "Start Stream"

This demonstrates the **chunked JSON streaming pattern** you'll use. Check:
- **Server:** `src/server/index.ts` - `/api/stream` endpoint
- **Client:** `src/client/main.ts` - how to consume the stream

---

## Your Task

### Part 1: Progressive Restaurant Loader (Core Task)

**Create a new endpoint:** `GET /api/restaurants/stream`

**Requirements:**

1. **Import all restaurants** from `restaurants.ts`
   - These restaurant names should form the base of the HTML table

2. **Fetch details** for each restaurant using `fetchRestaurantDetails(id)` from `api.ts`

3. **Limit concurrency** to 5 simultaneous API calls
   - Don't fetch all 134 at once (will overload the API)
   - Don't fetch one-by-one (too slow)
   - Keep exactly 5 active requests at any time
   - Create `loader.ts` for this

4. **Stream updates** to the client
   - Don't wait for all to finish before responding
   - Send each restaurant update when it arrives

5. **Update the client** (`src/client/main.ts`)
   - Call your new `/api/restaurants/stream` endpoint
   - Display restaurant updates as they arrive (progressive rendering)
   - Show loading progress: "Completed 15/134 requests"
   - Update the DOM incrementally, not in batches

**Acceptance Criteria:**

✅ Endpoint streams restaurant data progressively  
✅ Never more than 5 concurrent API requests  
✅ Client displays restaurants as they arrive  
✅ Progress indicator updates in real-time  
✅ All 134 restaurants' details eventually load (or show errors)  
✅ Handles API failures gracefully (some requests may fail, especially after hours)  

---

### Part 2: Bonus - Menu Loading (If Time Permits)

Extend your loader to also fetch restaurant menus:

1. Using each restaurant's details, add its menu to the queue
2. Use `fetchRestaurantMenu(id)` from `api.ts`
3. Send update down the same stream
4. Update the restaurant's UI to show menu info

**Constraints:**
- Still maintain the 5 concurrent request limit (shared between details and menus)
- Handle menu fetch failures independently (don't break the whole stream)

---

## What We're Evaluating

### Code Quality
- ✅ **Organization:** Is logic clearly separated? (queue, streaming, API calls)
- ✅ **TypeScript:** Are types used properly? Avoid `any`
- ✅ **Readability:** Can another developer understand your code?
- ✅ **Structure:** Are functions lean and focus on a single problem
- ✅ **Comments:** Do you explain non-obvious decisions?

### Technical Skill
- ✅ **Concurrency control:** Do you properly limit simultaneous requests?
- ✅ **Streaming:** Do results appear progressively or in batches?
- ✅ **Error handling:** What happens when API calls fail?
- ✅ **Performance:** Is the approach efficient?
- ✅ **Testing:** Is the loader easily testable with automation

### Process
- ✅ **Commits:** Do they show your thought process?
- ✅ **Prioritization:** Did you get basics working before attempting bonus?
- ✅ **Time management:** Working solution in 30-45 minutes?

---

## Important Constraints

⏱️ **Time-boxed:** Aim for 30-45 minutes total
📝 **Commit frequently:** We'll review your git history
⚠️ **External API:** The API is slow and occasionally returns errors
✅ **Working > Perfect:** We value a simple working solution over incomplete perfection

---

## Submission

When you're done (or time is up):

### 1. Make sure it compiles and runs

Please `npm run build && npm run start` to make sure it runs

### 2. Push Your Code

Push all your commits to `origin` and let us know when we can pull

### 3. Reply to Our Email With:

**Repository link:** `https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/restaurant-loader-challenge`

**If your repo is private:** Confirm you've added `gwest7` as a collaborator

**Brief explanation (3-5 sentences):**
- Your approach to concurrency control
- How you handled streaming/progressive updates
- Any trade-offs you made

**What you'd improve with more time:**
- What would you add/change with another 30 minutes?

**Estimated time spent:** (Be honest - we're testing realistic pace)

---

## Tips for Success

* Before you start, make a plan you can stick to
* Commit after each meaningful code change

---

## AI

Here is what very specific LLM prompts produced: https://youtu.be/nluEqXetQLs

**Please remember**, should you be invited to a technical interview, you will asked about your code so take note of the AI solutions you submit to us. You have to understand all the code you submit.

---

## Questions?

**Unclear requirements?** Make a reasonable assumption and document it in your submission notes.

**API not working?** Let us know in your submission - we can verify and review our access logs.

**Running out of time?** Submit what you have! We value working basics over incomplete advanced features.

---

## Good Luck! 🚀

Remember:
- ⏱️ 30-45 minutes total
- 📝 Commit as you go
- 💬 Comment your code
- ✅ Working > Perfect
- 🎯 Progressive loading is the key challenge

**We're excited to see your approach!**
